# Doing as neighbors do


1.  [Good deeds](#orgd6ba36b)
    1.  [I am a UX Designer.](#orgff111ca)
        1.  [# Comfortable for some](#org38e1ca6)
        2.  [Zeroing in on trust](#org6fc7419)
        3.  [Looking at the Task Business](#org12cf654)
        4.  [But how do you know?](#orgea4bc8d)
    2.  [Thin air trust](#org192b7fd)
        1.  [On the Problem](#org0d0055d)
        2.  [For the Solution](#org703e9a6)
    3.  [Worthy of display](#org710768d)
        1.  [Sketching](#org131f684)
        2.  [Two canvases](#org57f0bc0)
        3.  [Clear feedback](#orge0d2046)
    4.  [Case for moving forward](#orgf1409d7)
        1.  [Gudeeds as client](#org9910547)
        2.  [Next Steps](#org75fd08a)


<a id="orgd6ba36b"></a>

# Good deeds


![img](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/renepacchaux/gudeeds-responsive-mobile-app@assets/figure1n.gif)


<a id="orgff111ca"></a>

## I am a UX Designer.


<a id="org38e1ca6"></a>

### # Comfortable for some

**Can we make it happen?**

We are a team of designers and developers.

We had three days. Here, I take my chance to ask any questions about our
made-up person, Sabrina. We all know a Sabrina. She has kids and little
time. Our Sabrina happens to be a nurse with odd hours.

**Devices**

Our persona was built on a few back-and-forths we had about where we all
coming from before we even lay out any assumptions on the table. At this
stage, it makes sense that we mention a scenario. A possible situation
would be pulling out a phone rather than a laptop at a grocery store.
Technically speaking, two foundational choices allow us to work with
that.

-   Webapp
    
    Our work can work for iOS devices, but up to a point. We focused on
    where our use looks use first when they get to our page. We also open
    up the door to future version that can be opened from a browser on a
    desktop.

-   Mobile
    
    We put together visuals in a short amount of time. It makes sense that
    we would borrow from a design library. We expanded beyond just
    designing for Apple products. We knew our first stab at this design
    that we would be on phone-width, however. The decision to use Figma's
    port of Material Design boxed us in minimally. It gave us time,
    however, to benefit us moving forward on designing.
    
    **\* Research
    \*\*** Other task apps

Much work has been done for us already if we only look and see what is
out there. To keep us from doing repetitive work, we looked at commonly
used (but widley established) features that we would use as pieces of
our puzzle in building the initial prototypes.

**Common traits** We search for common places people go that are already
available to perform similar services as the ones like we are looking
at. In these target roles there is at least someone picking up groceries
for somebody else.

-   Task Rabbit
-   Amazon (Wholefoods)
-   Instacart

We break the information down to parts. Thise gave us an opportunity to
pick up more on the best practices side of things over mere features.

-   Cart
-   Schedule
-   Sort

As we moved towards defining user needs, the direction we took involved
more and more interviewees, testers, co-workers and yes, actual
neighbors.


<a id="org6fc7419"></a>

### Zeroing in on trust

**Themes that include trust**

![img](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_939A39C54BE532AA128503EB46A60918FB25F0AE543B578BF78BB58E8F771B97_1626047441287_2021-07-11+18.47.58.gif)


<a id="org12cf654"></a>

### Looking at the Task Business

As the cross-functional team went to build all the parts that make up a
virtual person within an app. They are a person with and age and
location, and task giver or receiver. In the inner workings of Gudeeds,
the UX Team contributed the moment in time, as seen by the user, that
qualifies as the point of entry as person who needs a thing. As a UX
practitioner, I am concerned about not only efficiency but also where
time spent simply learning to use the app guides our priorities. We were
building a context with which to handoff though accurately expressing
the blueprints to the development team.

**Business Analysis** It would be fun to have a ‘karma'-like score. Maybe
for the backend - a dashboard, maybe. We set this aside because our
testing gave us an already clear direction and a trending-contribution
did not make it past the design studio stage.

At judgement time, we were asked thata positive approach to ‘more'
heirarchy will be beneficial to the app. I come back to this at the
section on gamification.

To energize task uptake&#x2026;we do find some priorities:

-   Cart
-   Date
-   Items
-   Sort

**Learn Quick** Our user, we imagine, is a real person with limited time.
Who does she pay back first.

**Closeness of Volunteers and Trust Themes**

A level of trust is required

Our team, in starting to figure out and document why our representative
persona felt that way, The seams are still closing in on their way to
delivering it to four groups of 10 people.


<a id="orgea4bc8d"></a>

### But how do you know?

**Sabrina**

To maintain growing connection the the people around her and in her
building, neighbors need opportunities to help. We went on the simplify
this.

Sabrina also works to raise two children.


<a id="org192b7fd"></a>

## Thin air trust

Sabrina needs help. She needs to ask for a favor. The gudeeds app needs
more uptake to be successful. It is my role to ask if something is
possible from the dev team. Don' t we need a network in place to gain
trust? Is that something that can be coded?

The persona add neighbors and they in-turn help her down the line.
Without an initial network, how would confidence translate to favor
completions? The dev team seemed to ponder out input closely.


<a id="org0d0055d"></a>

### On the Problem

We discovered what we needed and visualized it. Let's set up our
guardrails voiced in the manner of something we are trying to solve.

**Just the stress of asking is enough of a barrier to moving forward.**

Frustrating, but common. That is what we are banking on. A solid
direction for the app. The difference between *saying it* and *doing
it*.


<a id="org703e9a6"></a>

### For the Solution

**Less Stressed**

Their offers of help go to Sabrina, where if she wants, she can approve
or deny based on her original request, focusing on neighbors she deems
appropriate.

While she may be busy, she is less stressed out on this one instance.


<a id="org710768d"></a>

## Worthy of display


<a id="org131f684"></a>

### Sketching

-   [design Studio Brackets]

**Designing for the Time Crunch** A situation recognized as a
'time-crunch.'


<a id="org57f0bc0"></a>

### Two canvases

There is the volunteer who participates by completing grocery pickup,
and other tasks for neighbor. Do we build first for the volunteer, or
the neighbor?

**Discussing them separately**

Are we talking about the same screen? The actual meeting we had on this
was short but valuable. The design and engineering agreed that everyone
would start at the same page one.

We are trying to make sure that an extremely busy person is not spending
more time learning how to use our app at the end the week. Sabrina, for
example, may have the app in hand to possibly do the opposite, and take
on more tasks than usual. We now had our one-pager - a few screens laid
out in succession. This is when we put that much to the test.

M\*oving slightly into color\*

**Getting answers with the help of two actual people**


<a id="orge0d2046"></a>

### Clear feedback

We easily save time by acting on the right feedback, and make good bets
on where they are taking us by acting on their clues

**Our initial perception** She prepares for her upcoming week with the
help of the Gudeeds app volunteer scheduling app.

**Our perception of obvious placement of a primary button, was
actuallly:**

-   Confusing
-   Redundant

**Categories** Clarifying types of tasks that others get help with, she is
likely to book also.


<a id="orgf1409d7"></a>

## Case for moving forward


<a id="org9910547"></a>

### Gudeeds as client

To Gudeeds, the tasks mean bookings. Each confirmation implies that
their app is better at being reliable.


<a id="org75fd08a"></a>

### Next Steps

**Explore if gamification is a good fit.**

Sandra just downloaded the Gudeeds app. The app will help build trust
across her neighbors ' relationships.

If booking now is based on trust, will charts and mini-analyticst be
more efficient to confirming her bookings?

